Add Bulletin Chain data storage reference and tutorial (#1575)
polkadot-developers/polkadot-docs: chain-interactions/store-data/bulletin-chain.md

        ![Upload success with CID and renewal info](/images/chain-interactions/store-data/bulletin-chain/upload-success.webp)

    !!! warning
        Save the **Block Number** and **Transaction Index** — you'll need these values to renew your data before it expires. The Console UI auto-saves this to your browser history, but you should record it separately as well.

=== "PAPI"

    Use the [Polkadot API (PAPI)](https://papi.how/){target=\_blank} to store an image programmatically — ideal for integrating into build scripts, CI pipelines, or dApp backends.

    **Environment Setup**

    1. Create and initialize a new project:

        ```bash
        mkdir bulletin-store-example && cd bulletin-store-example && \
        npm init -y && npm pkg set type=module
        ```

    2. Install the required dependencies:

        ```bash
        npm install polkadot-api@{{dependencies.javascript_packages.polkadot_api.version}} @polkadot-labs/hdkd@{{dependencies.javascript_packages.hdkd.version}} @polkadot-labs/hdkd-helpers@{{dependencies.javascript_packages.hdkd_helpers.version}} multiformats
        ```

> 

Reviewer: There is no step required to fetch chain metadata? Asking since this is using papi

---

> title: Store Data on the Bulletin Chain

Reviewer 2: Store and also retrieve?

Author: Good call — updated the title and heading to "Store and Retrieve Data on the Bulletin Chain".

description: Learn how to store an image on the Polkadot Bulletin Chain using the Console UI or PAPI, with step-by-step instructions.
categories: Chain Interactions
tutorial_badge: Beginner
---

# Store Data on the Bulletin Chain

> The [Bulletin Chain](/reference/polkadot-hub/data-storage/){target=\_blank} is a specialized storage chain in the Polkadot ecosystem that provides decentralized data storage with IPFS-compatible content addressing. You can use it to store static sites, images, media assets, application data, or any other files that benefit from on-chain verifiability.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The [Bulletin Chain](/reference/polkadot-hub/data-storage/){target=\_blank} is a specialized storage chain in the Polkadot ecosystem that provides decentralized data storage with IPFS-compatible content addressing. You can use it to store static sites, images, media assets, application data, or any other files that benefit from availability and censorship-resistance.
```

Author: Applied — changed "on-chain verifiability" to "availability and censorship-resistance".

> In this tutorial, you'll walk through a common developer scenario: storing an image on-chain and obtaining its CID (Content Identifier) so it can be referenced from a dApp, NFT metadata, or any IPFS-compatible system. The same steps apply to any file type — documents, JSON configs, HTML pages, and more.

Reviewer 2: I would try to mention Bulletin as a decentralized storage solution, not as putting stuff on-chain. It's true that Bulletin is a chain but we don't want people to think that it's okay to store images on-chain generally. Bulletin is not the best solution for scaling, there are future plans to scale more

Author: Good point — reframed the intro to say "storing an image using the Bulletin Chain's decentralized storage" instead of "storing an image on-chain". Avoided on-chain framing throughout.

## Prerequisites

- A Polkadot account (SS58 format) — see [Create an Account](/chain-interactions/accounts/create-account/){target=\_blank} if you need one
- A browser wallet extension (Polkadot.js, Talisman, SubWallet, or Fearless)

> - An image or file to store (under ~8 MiB; for larger files, see [Size Limits](/reference/polkadot-hub/data-storage/#size-limits){target=\_blank})

Reviewer 2: You can always chunk your data if it's larger than the limit

Author: Applied — updated to mention that you can chunk your data for larger files, with a link to the Size Limits section.

- Authorization to store data on the Bulletin Chain (covered in the next section)
- For the PAPI method: [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/){target=\_blank} v18 or higher

## Get Authorization

> The Bulletin Chain has no token balances — you need authorization before you can store data. Authorization grants your account a specific number of transactions and bytes that you can use for storage.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Bulletin Chain has no token balances — you need authorization before you can store data. Authorization grants your account a specific number of transactions and bytes that you can use for storage.

For this tutorial, we're going to use the testnet faucet for authorizations.
```

Author: Applied — added the testnet faucet note after the authorization intro.

        ![](/images/chain-interactions/store-data/bulletin-chain/bulletin-chain-2.webp)

    4. Approve the transaction in your wallet extension. You should see a success confirmation.

        ![](/images/chain-interactions/store-data/bulletin-chain/bulletin-chain-3.webp)

    5. To verify your authorization, switch to the **Accounts** tab to view your remaining transactions, bytes, and expiration block.

        ![](/images/chain-interactions/store-data/bulletin-chain/bulletin-chain-4.webp)

    !!! note
        Authorization has an expiration block. Once expired, unused authorization is not refunded — you'll need to request new authorization.

!!! note
    The `authorize_account` extrinsic requires Root origin (a privileged account). You cannot self-authorize programmatically — on Polkadot TestNet, use the Console UI faucet to authorize your account before using PAPI to store data.

## Store Your Image

Now that your account is authorized, you can store your image on-chain. Choose the method that best fits your workflow.

!!! note

>     You can also interact with the Bulletin Chain directly through [Polkadot.js Apps](https://polkadot.js.org/apps/?rpc=wss%3A%2F%2Fpaseo-bulletin-rpc.polkadot.io){target=\_blank} by submitting extrinsics from the `transactionStorage` pallet.

Reviewer 2: Can we also mention dev.papi.how? :D

Author: Applied — added dev.papi.how alongside Polkadot.js Apps.

    **Store an Image**

    Create a file named `store-data.ts` with the following content:

    ```typescript title="store-data.ts"
    --8<-- "code/chain-interactions/store-data/bulletin-chain/store-data.ts"
    ```

    !!! note
        Replace `INSERT_IMAGE_PATH` with the path to your image (e.g., `./logo.png`). Ensure the file is under ~8 MiB. For the signer, replace the dev phrase with your own mnemonic for a Polkadot TestNet-authorized account.

    Run the script:

    ```bash
    npx tsx store-data.ts
    ```

    You should see output similar to:

    --8<-- 'code/chain-interactions/store-data/bulletin-chain/store-data-ts.html'

## Verify Your Stored Image

After storing your image, you can verify it was successfully recorded using the **Explorer** in the Console UI. Navigate to the block number from the `Stored` event to see the `TransactionStorage.Stored` event with the content hash and CID.

![](/images/chain-interactions/store-data/bulletin-chain/bulletin-chain-8.webp)

## Retrieve Your Data

> The Bulletin Chain follows a "write-to-chain, read-from-network" architecture — you retrieve data from validator nodes using the CID. For a full overview of retrieval methods, see the [reference page](/reference/polkadot-hub/data-storage/#retrieval-methods).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Bulletin Chain follows a "write-to-chain, read-from-network" architecture — you retrieve data from collator nodes using the CID. For a full overview of retrieval methods, see the [reference page](/reference/polkadot-hub/data-storage/#retrieval-methods).
```

Author: Applied — replaced "validator nodes" with "collator nodes" throughout both files.

    3. Enter your **CID** in the "Fetch by CID" field — you can use either the `bafk2bzace...` format or the hex-encoded `0x0155a0e4...` format.
    4. Click **Fetch Data** to retrieve your content. The UI also generates a direct **Gateway Link** you can open in your browser.

        ![](/images/chain-interactions/store-data/bulletin-chain/bulletin-chain-9.webp)

    !!! tip
        You can also access your data directly in the browser via the Bulletin Chain IPFS gateway:

        ```text
        https://paseo-ipfs.polkadot.io/ipfs/<CID>
        ```

        For fully decentralized retrieval, use P2P or the upcoming Smoldot light client.

=== "Programmatic (Gateway)"

    You can retrieve data programmatically using the Bulletin Chain's IPFS gateway:

    ```typescript
    const cid = 'INSERT_CID';
    const response = await fetch(`https://paseo-ipfs.polkadot.io/ipfs/${cid}`);
    const data = await response.arrayBuffer();
    console.log(`Retrieved ${data.byteLength} bytes`);
    ```

    !!! note
        Replace `INSERT_CID` with the CID string you received when storing your data (e.g., `bafk2bzacea6wlxy...`).

=== "Direct P2P (Helia)"

>     For production applications, the recommended decentralized approach is to connect directly to Bulletin Chain validator nodes using [Helia](https://helia.io/){target=\_blank} (a lean IPFS implementation) and retrieve data via the CID over [libp2p](https://libp2p.io/){target=\_blank}.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    For production applications, the recommended decentralized approach is to connect directly to Bulletin Chain collator nodes using [Helia](https://helia.io/){target=\_blank} (a lean IPFS implementation) and retrieve data via the CID over [libp2p](https://libp2p.io/){target=\_blank}.
```

Author: Applied — updated to collator nodes here as well.

>     This method requires knowing the public multiaddresses of Bulletin Chain validator nodes. See the [Bulletin Chain repository](https://github.com/paritytech/polkadot-bulletin-chain){target=\_blank} for Helia configuration examples and available validator endpoints.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    This method requires knowing the public multiaddresses of Bulletin Chain collator nodes. See the [Bulletin Chain repository](https://github.com/paritytech/polkadot-bulletin-chain){target=\_blank} for Helia configuration examples and available collator endpoints.
```

Author: Applied — updated to collator nodes and collator endpoints.

!!! tip
    Smoldot light client support for retrieval via the `bitswap_block` RPC is coming soon. This will enable fully trustless, decentralized data retrieval without connecting to a full node.

!!! note

>     Stored data is only available within the retention period (~2 weeks on Polkadot TestNet). After that, the data is pruned from the chain and is no longer retrievable unless it has been renewed or pinned by an external IPFS node.

Reviewer 2: I wouldn't mention pinning. Although possible, we discourage it. The intended way is to renew it

Author: Applied — removed the pinning mention. The note now just says data is no longer retrievable unless renewed.

    2. Select your stored transaction from the **Load from History** dropdown, or manually enter the **Block Number** and **Transaction Index**.

        ![](/images/chain-interactions/store-data/bulletin-chain/bulletin-chain-10.webp)

    3. Click **Lookup Transaction** to view the transaction details, including the content hash, size, and expiration status.

        ![](/images/chain-interactions/store-data/bulletin-chain/bulletin-chain-11.webp)

    4. Click **Renew Storage** and approve the transaction in your wallet extension.

=== "PAPI"

    ```typescript
    console.log('Renewing stored data...');
    const result = await api.tx.TransactionStorage.renew({
      block: INSERT_BLOCK_NUMBER,
      index: INSERT_INDEX,
    }).signAndSubmit(signer);
    console.log(`Renewal included in block: ${result.block.hash}`);
    ```

    You should see output similar to:

    --8<-- 'code/chain-interactions/store-data/bulletin-chain/renew-data-ts.html'

Renewal resets the retention timer, keeping your image available for another full retention period.

!!! warning

>     Each renewal generates a **new block number and index**. You must track the latest `(block, index)` pair from the `Renewed` event for any subsequent renewals. Using the original values after a renewal will fail.

Reviewer 2: This will hopefully be improved soon and you'll be able to reference all data by CID instead

Author: Added a note mentioning that in the future you'll be able to reference all data by CID instead of tracking block number and index pairs.
